[MUSIC]
Welcome to the fifth and final video
of the behavior planning module.
In this video we will discuss
the limitations of state machine based
approaches to behavior planning.
And we will then take a tour through some
alternative behavior planning systems that
aim to address some of these limitations.
By the end of this video you should have
a good overall picture of the main methods
used in behavior planning.
Let's begin by identifying the issues
with our state machine model.
The first issue we identified throughout
the development of this module is
the issue of rule-explosion.
This means that as we develop a more
complete set of scenarios and
maneuvers to handle the number of
rules required grows very quickly.
This limitation means that while it is
possible to develop a finite state machine
behavior planner to handle a limited
operational design domain.
Developing a full level four or
five capable vehicle is almost
impossible with finite state machines.
Dealing with a noisy
environment is the next issue.
While we saw in lesson two and
three how the addition of hyperparameters
can be used to deal with some noise.
This type of noise handling is only
able to deal with some every limited
situations.
To deal with all types of input
uncertainty different methods will
be required.
On that note, the next issue I would like
to point out is the actual tuning of
the hyperparameters.
As the behaviors required get more
complex, the number of hyperparameters to
both discretize the environment and handle
some of the low level noise grow rapidly.
All these hyperparameters have
to be tuned very carefully and
this can be a lengthy process.
Finally, the last issue we'll discuss is
handling of unencountered situations.
Due to the program nature of this
approach it is very likely that there
will arise a situation in
which the programmed logic of
the system will react in an incorrect or
unintended manner.
State machine based approaches
are classified as experts systems,
systems which have been designed and
develop by human experts.
However, state machines are not
the only such expert systems devised.
There are also approaches that
rely on a database of rules which
are applied to the input
data at every time step.
The rules are formed into a hierarchy
where safety critical rules take
precedence, override comfort rules, or
defensive driving rules, for example.
Each rule is engaged only when
the appropriate conditions arise for
it to affect the selection
of the output maneuver.
Such rule databases do not suffer from
the problem of needing to duplicate
the rules that we encountered
with hierarchical state machines.
As the rules can apply throughout the ODD
or over significant portions of it.
However, rule based systems have to
very carefully develop rules in such
a way that they do not
negatively impact each other.
Or lead to unintended outcomes when
multiple rules are activated at
the same time.
Due to the common reliance on expert users
to design for all possible scenarios,
both types of expert systems suffer
from the same issues described above.
One possible solution to some of
the problems we've identified above
is to extend the human expert type plan or
to incorporate Fuzzy logic.
Fuzzy logic is a system
by which a set of crisp,
well-defined values are used to create
a more continuous set of fuzzy states.
For a simple example of how
a Fuzzy based system works,
let's take a look at the example
of the vehicle following behavior.
While previously we set a parametrized
distance which divided the space into
follow the vehicle or
do not follow the vehicle.
With a Fuzzy system we're able to have
a continuous space over which different
rules can be applied.
For example,
a Fuzzy system might react strongly to
a lead vehicle when very close to it.
But be less concerned with
the speed matching or
distance following requirements
when it's further away.
While Fuzzy based rule systems are able
to deal with the environmental noise of
a system to a greater degree than
traditional discreet systems.
Both rule-explosion and hyperparameter
tuning remain issues with Fuzzy systems.
In fact, Fuzzy systems can result in
rule-explosion to an even greater degree,
as even more logic is required to
handle the fuzzy set of inputs.
Accompanying the rule-explosion
is a large challenge in
hyperparameter tuning as well.
The next exciting research approach
I'd like to discuss is the use of
reinforcement learning for
behavior planning.
Reinforcement learning is a form of
machine learning in which an agent learns
how to interact with a given
environment by taking action and
receiving a continuous reward.
The agent begins by engaging in
play with a simulated environment.
Which means that at the start the agent
will not be good at the particular task,
however, over time as the agent
maximizes its reward,
they eventually learn to master the task.
By learning in a simulated environment,
no real world repercussions occurred
during the many failures
experienced during learning.
More specifically, we can say the agent is
attempting to learn a policy, denoted by
p, which maps a given environment, denoted
by s, to a given actions, denoted by a.
To connect the concept of reinforcement
learning to behavior planning let's say
we're attempting to teach the autonomous
vehicle how to follow a lead vehicle.
In this case our policy p will be
attempting to do vehicle following.
Our actions may be explicitly defined
as behaviors to execute or can define
behaviors implicitly through selection
of desired accelerations and turn rates.
The environment can be represented by
a continuous set of variables telling
us relevant information, such as distance
to all objects and our mission path.
And, finally, the reward function could be
based on an optimal following distance.
And give the highest reward
at the preferred distance,
penalizing getting too close more
heavily than being too far away.
Because of the extremely large
variety of scenarios and
inputs that an autonomous
vehicle can encounter,
direct reinforcement learning for
behavior planning is unlikely to succeed.
Instead some further adaptations
are usually applied.
One such adaptation is known as
hierarchical reinforcement learning.
Where we divide the problem into low
level policies in the maneuver space and
high level policies the scenarios.
This is similar to the hierarchical
finite state machine.
Then each low level policy is learned
independently and only once successfully
learned a high level policy can be
learned to complete a scenario.
The second technique often applied is
called model-based reinforcement learning.
In model-based reinforcement learning not
only is the agent attempting to learn
a policy, p, but also a model of
the current environment around the agent.
An example of how this approach
might apply to behavior planning for
self driving cars would be to include a
model of the movement of dynamic objects.
If the agent understands the movement
patterns of the dynamic object it can
create more effective plans
through the environment.
While reinforcement learning
is a very exciting and
highly promising area of research it
too is not without its own limitations.
Many simulation environments used
to learn the policies required for
autonomous driving are overly simplified.
And due to their simplicity the policies
learned may not be transferable
to real world environments.
Overly realistic simulators lead to
the issue of severe computational
requirements.
Especially when running thousands
of repetitions of widely varying
scenarios for self driving learning.
The second is an issue concerning safety.
While there are techniques within
reinforcement learning that attempt to
ensure safety constraints along the
trajectories created by the reinforcement
learner.
There is still no way to perform rigorous
safety assessment of a learned system,
as they are mostly black boxes in terms
of the way in which decisions are made.
Many other interesting ideas are also
being explored right now in the research
community and many of them try to
learn from human driving actions.
For example, in inverse
reinforcement learning rather than
trying to obtain a policy
given a reward function,
the approach is to use human
driving data as the policy.
An attempt to learn the reward
function used by humans.
Once the reward function is learned
the algorithm can then execute driving
maneuvers similarly to a human driver.
Finally, end-to-end approaches take
as an input raw sensor data and
attempt to output throttle,
break, and steering commands.
By learning, once again,
from human driving commands in
an imitation learning approach.
This approach was pioneered by
researchers at Nvidia with their paper,
End to End Learning for Self-Driving Cars.
While this is not explicitly
classified as behavior planning,
the end-to-end approach still
implicitly performs the task of
behavior selection as part of
its output selection process.
These brief explanations only
scratched the surface of a huge and
rapidly evolving research area.
Behavior planning remains one
of the hotbeds of activity in
autonomous driving research.
And one of the toughest bottlenecks in
achieving real world level five autonomy.
We've included a reading list of some
of the recent work in this area in
the supplemental materials for
those interested in learning more.
Let's summarize what we've
discussed in this video.
We presented some of the issues with
finite state machine based planning.
And presented multiple advanced approaches
to the problem of behavior planning
which seek to address the full complexity
of the behavior planning problem.
And with that we have come to the end
of our behavior planning module.
In this module we've defined
the requirements needed to make a behavior
planning system capable
of autonomous driving.
Then we walked through the creation of
such a system for a specific scenario,
a four way intersection.
We then added dynamic
vehicle interactions and
expanded to incorporate
multiple scenarios.
We ended with a brief review
of a few exciting methods
emerging from the behavior
planning research community.
Join us for the next module where we will
build a full local planning solution
using parameterized curves and
nonlinear optimization, until then.
[MUSIC]